Purpose
----------

These example scripts are intended to help a developer get acquainted with the
SrFit programming interface. Although one can write scripts like these to drive
optimization, these scripts do not represent the SrFit user interface. That
interface will be made available in a future release.

A secondary purpose of these tutorials is to generate interest in SrFit.  By
reading through the examples we hope that you are inspired to think of exciting
new ways to get the most out of your scientific data. If you think SrFit can
help you with that, please feel free to contact us through the DiffPy website.

http://www.diffpy.org


Overview
----------

Three things are required for optimization: a function that generates a
quantity to be minimized, variables that can be used to manipulate that
function and an algorithm that can drive the function output to a smaller value
by steering the variables.  For scientific purposes, the quantity to be
minimized is the disagreement between a measured profile and a theoretical
profile. The scientific understanding of the system under consideration partly
determines the suitability of the theoretical profile generator and the
scientific relevance of the variables used to drive it.

The purpose of SrFit is to give users the means to combine known information
about a system of interest in order to extract scientifically relevant
quantities, and thus understanding from it. Various experimental procedures and
theoretical calculations may be needed to gain the desired understanding of the
system.  SrFit helps users combine these views of the system in a coherent and
consistent manner.

To achieve this purpose, SrFit provides:

1) a function to be optimized (the residual) given one or more measured
   profiles, one or more profile generators and variables to be steered by an
   optimizer.
2) constraints and restraints that encapsulate known information about the
   system.
3) a clearly defined programming interface that developers can use to add their
   own profile generators, thereby enabling the combination of more views of a
   system.
4) an equation building interface that allows users to tweak profile generators
   when scientific understanding of a system is more advanced than the existing
   software.

The examples described below will go into detail about each of these points.


Examples
----------

The following examples are contained in the *doc/examples/* directory of the
SrFit source distribution.  They can be downloaded from
http://dev.danse.us/packages/srfit_examples-alpha7.zip

For each example, start by running the example by typing in the command line ::

    python example.py

where *example.py* represents the example file. The output will show on screen
and a plot window will display. Once you've studied the output and plot, close
the plot window and open the example file. In the file there will be a
description of what the script is doing and the purpose of the example. By
reading through the example, you will be introduced to the SrFit programming
interface.

Here is an overview of the examples. It is recommended that you work through
them in the order listed below.

Basic:

* refinegaussian.py_
    Introductory recipe building and configuration. This introduces the
    fundamental classes in SrFit.

* debyemodel.py_
    Introductory recipe building and configuration. This shows how to use a
    function created by someone else in a refinement. This example also
    introduces restraints.

* debyemodelII.py_
    Refine two different values of a variable from two different regions of a
    profile. This example introduces constraints and working with multiple
    contributions to a fit.

Advanced:

* npintensity.py_
    Use diffpy.Structure to build a nanoparticle intensity generator, and use
    it to refine a structure to simulated data.

* npintensityII.py_
    Use the calculator built in npintensity.py to simultaneously refine a
    structure to two data sets.


Use Cases
-----------

There are several examples that demonstrate various SrFit use cases. These do
not adopt the tutorial format of the previous examples. Regardless, developers
should read through these use cases to gain an understanding of PDF and SAS
refinement with SrFit.

* crystalpdf.py_
    Refine a diffpy.Structure crystal to PDF data using automatic explicit
    space group constraints.

* simplepdf.py_
    As crystalpdf.py_, but with a simplified interface.

* crystalpdfobjcryst.py_
    Refine a pyobjcryst crystal to PDF data using automatic implicit space
    group constraints.

* crystalpdftwophase.py_
    Refine a two-phase structure to PDF data using two profile generators.

* simplepdftwophase.py_
    crystalpdftwophase.py_ using the simplified PDFContribution interface.

* crystalpdftwodata.py_
    Refine a single structure to x-ray and neutron data simultaneously.

* crystalpdfall.py_
    Refine a two-phase structure using four data sets.

* nppdfobjcryst.py_
    Refine the C60 structure to real data.

* nppdfcrystal.py_
    Fit a nanoparticle PDF as a crystal PDF attenuated by a nanoparticle form
    factor.

* ellipsoidsas.py_
    Refine an ellipsoid SAS model to ideal data.

* nppdfsas.py_
    Refine PDF from nanoparticle of unknown shape using a crystal model and SAS
    data from the same system.

* nppdfsasII.py_
    As nppdfsas.py_, but refine the shape of the nanoparticle as well.

Miscellaneous
--------------

These demonstrate other SrFit features. These are in flux and may not be in
future versions.

* simplerecipe.py_
    This introduces the SimpleRecipe class that is a FitRecipe with an embedded
    Profile and FitContribution. SimpleRecipe exposes methods from the Profile
    and FitContribution, and adds other methods so it is easy to set up a
    simple fit.

* interface.py_
    This example introduces some interface enhancements that allow the SrFit
    recipes to be written with less code. This is not the same as a
    full-featured scripting interface, but rather somewhere in between a
    scripting interface and the API.
   

